---
slug: Tutorial-OpenOCD
title: OpenOCD
authors: cesar
tags: [flash]
---

This tutorial will guide you through the process of flashing a firmware to a development board using OpenOCD.

<!-- truncate -->

## Introduction

OpenOCD (Open On-Chip Debugger) is an open-source software that provides debugging and in-system programming for embedded target devices. It supports a wide range of hardware interfaces and target devices, making it a versatile tool for embedded development.

In this tutorial, we will use OpenOCD to flash a firmware to a development board. We will cover the installation of OpenOCD, configuration of the target device, and flashing of the firmware.


## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have the following:

- A development board with an appropriate hardware interface (e.g., JTAG, SWD).
- A firmware file in a supported format (e.g., ELF, HEX).
- A computer with OpenOCD installed.



## Installation

To install OpenOCD, follow the instructions for your operating system:

- **Linux**: OpenOCD is available in most package managers. You can install it using the following command:

  ```bash
  sudo apt-get install openocd
  ```

- **Windows**: Download the latest OpenOCD binary from the [official website](

- **macOS**: OpenOCD can be installed using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/). Run the following command:

  ```bash
  brew install openocd
  ```

Once OpenOCD is installed, you can verify the installation by running the following command:

```bash
openocd --version
```

You should see the version number of OpenOCD displayed in the terminal.